SUMMARY & USAGE LICENSE
=============================================

This dataset is provided by Keagle through the link: https://www.kaggle.com/retailrocket/ecommerce-dataset

The data has been collected from a real-world ecommerce website by Retail Rocket (retailrocket.io). It is raw data, i.e. without any content transformations, however, all values are hashed due to confidential issues. The purpose of publishing is to motivate researches in the field of recommender systems with implicit feedback. 

The behaviour data, i.e. events like clicks, add to carts, transactions, represent interactions that were collected over a period of 4.5 months. A visitor can make three types of events, namely “view”, “addtocart” or “transaction”. In the original dataset, there are 2,756,101 events including 2,664,312 views, 69,332 add to carts and 22,457 transactions produced by 1,407,580 unique visitors. 


This data has been organized and cleaned up by Arthur Fortes [1] similar to the MovieLens 100k treatment [2], 
which removed all users and items who had less than 10 and 40 interactions, receptively and separated 
in files the type of events. 

Detailed descriptions of the data file can be found at the end of this file.
 
This dataset consists of:
  * 92,490 interactions from 3,431 users on 8,885 items.
    - History: 3,423 users and 8,878 items (78,371 accesses) 
    - Purchase: 824 users and 3,077 items (5,088 interactions)
    - Add to cart: 1,557 users and 4,447 items (9,028 interactions) 

If you have any further questions or comments, please contact me
<fortes.arthur@gmail.com>. 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
==============================================

Retail Rocket (retailrocket.io) helps web shoppers make better shopping decisions by providing personalized real-time recommendations through multiple channels with over 100MM unique monthly users and 1000+ retail partners over the world.


DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS OF DATA FILES
==============================================

Here are brief descriptions of the data.

view_ecommerce.dat    
                  
                  The full history set, 78,371 accesses by 3,423 users on 8,878 items.
                  Each user has accessed at least 10 items.  Users and items are
                  numbered consecutively from 1.  The data is ordered by users ids. 
                  This is a tab separated list of 
                  visitorid | itemid | event


add_to_cart_ecommerce.dat    

                  The full history set, 5,088 accesses by 824 users on 3,077 items.
                  Users and items are numbered consecutively from 1.  
                  The data is ordered by users ids. This is a tab separated list of 
                  visitorid | itemid | event


purchase_ecommerce.dat  
                  
                  The full history set, 9,028 accesses by 1,557 users on 4,447 items.
                  Users and items are numbered consecutively from 1. The data is ordered by users ids. 
                  This is a tab separated list of 
                  visitorid | itemid | event

REFERENCES
==============================================

[1] Da Costa, Arthur Fortes. PhD candidate at the Institute of Mathematical and Computational Sciences, 
University of São Paulo. URL: https://arthurfortes.github.io/


[2] MovieLens 100K Dataset. Stable benchmark dataset. 100,000 ratings from 1000 users on 1700 movies. 
Released 4/1998. URL: https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/100k/
Generated by GroupLens [Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota].
